/* SQL Constraints
SQL constraints are used to specify any rules for the records in a table. Constraints can be used to limit
the type of data that can go into a table. It ensures the accuracy and reliability of the records in the
table, and if there is any violation between the constraint and the record action, the action is aborted.
*/


-- Not Null: It Ensures that a column cannot have a NULL value.
-- Unique: It Ensures that all the values in a column are unique.
-- Primary Key: It is a combination of a NOT NULL and UNIQUE. Uniquely identifies each row in a table.
-- Foreign Key: Uniquely identifies a record /row in another table
-- Check: It checks that all values in a column satisfy a specific condition
-- Default: It gives a default value for a column when no value is specified
-- Index: It is Used to create and retrieve data from the database quickly.

create database records;
use records;
show tables;
-- Not null
create table table1( id int not null, name varchar(20) not null, age int, salary int not null, city varchar(30) not null); 
desc table1;

-- unique
create table table2(id int not null, name varchar(30) not null, age int, salary int not null, unique(id));
desc table2;

-- Primary key 
create table table3(id int not null, name varchar(30) not null, age int , salary int not null, primary key(id));
desc table3;

-- Foreign key
/* A FOREIGN KEY is used to link two tables together. It is sometimes also called a referencing key.
Foreign Key is a combination of columns (can be single column) whose value matches a Primary Key
in the different tables. */
CREATE TABLE customer(
Id int NOT NULL,
Name varchar(20) NOT NULL,
Age int NOT NULL,
Address varchar(25) ,
Salary decimal (18, 2),
PRIMARY KEY (id)
);
desc customer;

create table orders(OrderID int not null, OrderNumber int not null, Id int, primary key(OrderID), constraint FK_customerOrder foreign key(Id) references Customer(Id));
desc orders;

-- Check
CREATE TABLE Persons(
ID int NOT NULL,
LastName varchar(255) NOT NULL,
FirstName varchar(255),
Age int,
CHECK (Age>=18)
);
desc persons;
insert into persons values(1,'xyz','abc',19);
select * from persons;

-- default
CREATE TABLE Persons2(
ID int NOT NULL,
LastName varchar(255) NOT NULL,
FirstName varchar(255),
Age int,
City varchar(255) DEFAULT 'PUNE'
);
select * from persons2;
desc persons2;

-- index
/* used to create indexes in tables. The indexes are used to retrieve data from the database more quickly than others. */
CREATE INDEX info on persons2 (ID);
desc persons2;
